Affiliated Package Review Process and Criteria (#215)
sunpy/sunpy.org: project/affiliated.rst

|               | welcome contributions, maintain                     |
|               | and respond to an issue tracker,                    |
|               | and are receptive to appropriate                    |
|               | community feedback.                                 |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |needs_work|  | Code is maintained in hosted                        |
|               | version control, but decisions                      |
|               | are often made without community or feedback.       |
|               | Lacks a Code of Conduct. It is                      |
|               | not clear how to make a                             |
|               | contribution or whether                             |
|               | contributions are welcome.                          |
|               | Developers do not respond to                        |
|               | issues or an issue tracker is not                   |
|               | used.                                               |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

> Development Status

Author: @mbobra @wtbarnes and everyone else,

I have completely re-written this section after looking over it with fresh eyes this morning. I think that it was *way* too focused on API stability over development activity and functionality. This is now a lot closer to the Astropy version, and I believe it has the following main advantages:

1. It provides more useful information to the user. Is the package stable, rapidly developing or almost abandoned. This sets expectations, and rapid development and no API stability isn't always a bad thing.
2. It provides a way for us to rotate out packages which have been abandoned to the point of not working (looking at you `solarbextrapolation`) in our yearly review cycle.

Reviewer: Looks great to me 👍

Author: Following these comments I have updated this again.

Author: > We should not penalize packages for not moving forward if no motion is necessary.

I hope the updates to the wording applied from Albert's suggestions have addressed this.

>I also think that a package may provide useful functionality but with older versions of sunpy is not bad. In fact, that's the point of version control. 

While this is true, for this type of library package it is a real problem. You soon end up in a situation where you have unresolvable dependencies if radiospectra requires sunpy 0.9 and ndcube needs 2.0+.

> If someone wants to reproduce the results of an old paper we don't want to necessarily abandon packages that are no longer compatible with the latest version of sunpy.

This imo, is not the same problem, you are going to need old versions of the whole stack to make this work, not just allowing old packages to be the ones we recommend to users.

I don't think we want to list sunpy compatibility here, as it's more about compatibility with all manner of other packages. Correctly specifying your dependencies in your setup.cfg file and justifying them would be fine and a conversation for the reviewer to have with the submitter.

may challenge a new review which requires the editors to get an external
reviewer to perform the review.

Existing provisional affiliated will be reviewed once per year by the
editors. They must still be working towards meeting the rest of the
review criteria.

.. |general| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/General_Package-brightgreen.svg
.. |specialized| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Specialized_Package-brightgreen.svg
.. |notrelevant| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Not_Relevant-red.svg
.. |well| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Well_Integrated-brightgreen.svg
.. |partially| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Partially_Integrated-orange.svg
.. |minimal| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Minimal_Integration-red.svg
.. |extensive| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Extensive-brightgreen.svg
.. |some| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Some-orange.svg
.. |little| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Little-red.svg
.. |excellent| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Excellent-brightgreen.svg
.. |good| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Good-orange.svg
.. |needs_work| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Needs_Work-red.svg

> .. |package_general| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Functionality-General_Package-brightgreen.svg

Author: @mbobra it's these URLs that need the description word. I did the top one here for testing.

Reviewer: @Cadair Sounds good, I fixed these in a PR to your repo

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |little|      | Little to no online                                 |
|               | documentation is provided in                        |
|               | the version control                                 |
|               | repository. No guides or                            |
|               | tutorials.                                          |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Testing
~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |excellent|   | A high quality testing suite                        |
|               | exists which tests individual                       |
|               | components (e.g. functions,                         |
|               | classes) as well as providing                       |
|               | integration tests. Code coverage                    |
|               | is good. Testing is automated and                   |

> |               | run frequently.                                     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|               | runs frequently.                                     |
```
or ran?

     -

drms
----
Access HMI, AIA and MDI data with Python.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15, 20, 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Links
     - Maintainer(s)
     - Review
   * - `Docs <https://docs.sunpy.org/projects/drms>`__, `Code <https://github.com/sunpy/drms>`__
     - `Kolja Glogowski`_
     -

radiospectra
------------
This package aims to provide support for some type of radiospectra on solar physics.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15, 20, 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Links
     - Maintainer(s)
     - Review
   * - `Docs <https://docs.sunpy.org/projects/radiospectra>`__, `Code <https://github.com/sunpy/radiospectra>`__
     - `David Pérez-Suárez`_
     -

Affiliated Packages
===================

Your package here!!

.. _Daniel Ryan: https://github.com/danryanirish
.. _David Pérez-Suárez: https://github.com/dpshelio
.. _Kolja Glogowski: https://github.com/kbg
.. _Stuart Mumford: https://github.com/Cadair

Affiliated Package Review
=========================

Affiliated packages are reviewed before they are accepted for listing on this page.

Review Criteria
---------------

Functionality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+----------------------------------------------------+

> |  Status       | Meaning                                            |

Author: Yeah but I can't be bothered :laughing:

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |partially|   | Uses some features of the core                      |
|               | library, but could integrate                        |
|               | better with the affiliated                          |
|               | package ecosystem.                                  |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |minimal|     | Does not use many features of the                   |
|               | core library and does not                           |
|               | integrate well within the                           |
|               | affiliated package ecosystem.                       |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |extensive|   | Extensive online                                    |
|               | documentation, all public API                       |

> |               | has docstrings describing the                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|               | have formatted docstrings describing the                       |
```

|               | code’s purpose, all inputs and                      |

> |               | outputs, and providing                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|               | outputs, and provide                              |
```

|               | examples. Provides high level                       |
|               | documentation; for example, a                       |
|               | user guide and/or an example                        |
|               | gallery.                                            |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |some|        | Some online documentation. The                      |
|               | public API is documented, but                       |
|               | may have some missing or                            |
|               | incomplete docstrings. The                          |
|               | documentation is missing                            |
|               | guides, tutorials or other                          |
|               | high level documentation.                           |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |little|      | Little to no online                                 |
|               | documentation is provided in                        |

> |               | the version control                                 |

Reviewer 3: would remove the mention of version control since it is already described and reviewed earlier.
```suggestion
|               | in the python package                                 |
```

Author: "version control repository" here is to say that it's in with the code. Saying python package is not really correct as you don't have to package your docs. (Sorry this is really pedantic lol)

|               | repository. No guides or                            |
|               | tutorials.                                          |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Testing
~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |excellent|   | A high quality testing suite                        |

> |               | exists which tests individual                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|               | exists which tests all individual                       |
```

|               | functions (e.g. functions,                          |
|               | classes) as well as providing                       |
|               | integration tests. Code coverage                    |
|               | is good. Testing is automated and                   |

> |               | run frequently.                                     |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|               | runs frequently.                                     |
```

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |good|        | Unit tests of individual                            |
|               | components (e.g. functions,                         |
|               | classes) and integration tests,                     |
|               | but coverage is minimal. Testing                    |
|               | is automated.                                       |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |needs_work|  | Lacks tests and/or tests are not                    |
|               | executed in a test framework                        |
|               | (e.g. pytest).                                      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Duplication
~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |excellent|   | No code or functionality is                         |

> |               | duplicated from core other                          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|               | duplicated from core, other                          |
```

|               | affiliated packages, or other                       |
|               | relevant packages. Builds on top                    |

> |               | of the affiliated package                           |

Reviewer 3: I think it's important to allow for this out in case someone wants to build a new algorithm or maybe implement existing functionality to run on graphics cards or something.
```suggestion
|               | of, significantly improves the affiliated package                           |
```

|               | ecosystem.                                          |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |good|        | Some code or functionality                          |
|               | duplication, functionality                          |
|               | already exists in the ecosystem.                    |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |needs_work|  | Duplicates major existing                           |
|               | functionality.                                      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

> Engagement

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Open Development
```

Author: We went with "Community" in the end.

~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |excellent|   | The developers are active and                       |

> |               | engaged with the SunPy community.                   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|               | engaged with the community.                   |
```

|               | They actively solicit feedback                      |
|               | and work with other developers to                   |
|               | improve ecosystem integration.                      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |good|        | The package is developed openly.                    |
|               | The developers have adopted a                       |
|               | compatible Code of Conduct. They                    |
|               | welcome contributions, maintain                     |
|               | and respond to an issue tracker,                    |
|               | and implement appropriate                           |
|               | community feedback.                                 |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |needs_work|  | Code is maintained in hosted                        |
|               | version control, but decisions                      |

> |               | are made without community input.                   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|               | are made without considering community feedback or input.                   |
```

|               | Lacks a Code of Conduct. It is                      |
|               | not clear how to make a                             |
|               | contribution or whether                             |
|               | contributions are welcome.                          |
|               | Developers do not respond to                        |
|               | issues or an issue tracker is not                   |
|               | used.                                               |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Development Status
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+

> | |excellent|   | Public API stable, beaking                          |

Reviewer 3: Public API is stable. Breaking changes are limited to new released versions and a formal development and release process is documented and followed.

Author: I have completely re-written this section since you added this comment (but before you submitted the review?) can you take another look.

|               | changes limited to across                           |
|               | released versions, formal                           |
|               | development and release process                     |
|               | producing stable versioned                          |
|               | releases.                                           |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

> | |good|        | Public API mostly stable,                           |

Reviewer 3: Public API is mostly stable and an informal development process is used which leads to releases producing stable releases.

|               | informal development and release                    |
|               | process producing stable                            |
|               | versioned releases.                                 |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |needs_work|  | Public API rapidly changing, no                     |
|               | established development, release,                   |

> |               | deprecation processes.                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|               | or deprecation processes.                              |
```

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Outcomes
--------

+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Outcomes    | Meaning                                             |
+=============+=====================================================+
| Accepted    | Affiliated packages can only be                     |
|             | accepted into the list if there                     |
|             | are no red scores and at least                      |

> |             | one green in any category except                    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|             | one green other category than that of                  |
```

|             | relevant and useful.                                |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Provisional | A package may be listed as                          |
|             | provisional, as long as it is                       |
|             | assesed to not have a red score                     |
|             | in “Relevant and useful                             |
|             | functionality”, “Duplication” or                    |
|             | “Community Engagement” and is                       |
|             | working towards meeting the rest                    |
|             | of the review criteria.                             |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

> | Not accepted| A package does not satisfy the                      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Not yet ready for acceptance| A package does not currently satisfy the                      |
```

> |             | provisional criteria.                               |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|             | criteria and requires more work to meet them.                         |
```

+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Open review process
-------------------

> The review process for becoming a SunPy affiliated package is supposed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The review process for becoming a SunPy affiliated package is designed 
```

to be approachable, lightweight and open. Reviews are conducted by
GitHub pull requests on the https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy.org
repository.

Steps for Getting New Packages Reviewed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

0. If you’re not sure whether to submit your package for the affiliated
   package review process, you can open an issue to informally discuss
   your package or contact the Affiliated Package Liason to discuss your
   package privately.
1. Open a new issue with the issue template.
2. The Affiliated Package Liason will identify an independent reviewer.
3. The reviewer evaluates the affiliated package against the review
   criteria.
4. The reviewer adds their review as a comment to the issue.
5. Based on the scores in each of the seven categories, the affiliated

>    package is either accepted or given provisional status.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   package is either accepted, given provisional status, or provided feedback for how to improve if not yet ready.
```

6. Based on the scores, the submitting author can decide if they want
   their package displayed on the website.

> 7. The submitting author can challenge the review and ask for another

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7. The submitting author has the right to ask for another review.
```

   reviewer. In this case, the Affiliated Package Liason will identify a
   new independent reviewer. This new review will be added to the same
   issue.

> 8. If the review passed the review criteria then the submitting author

Reviewer 3: Do we want to require the submitting author to do this or should we do it ourselves. Feels weird to reward a package that has just passed by giving them more work.

   opens a pull request to add their package to the Sunpy.org
   `affiliated package
   website <https://sunpy.org/project/affiliated>`__.
9. The Affiliated Package Liason merges the pull request.

Steps for Getting Existing Packages Reviewed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Existing affiliated packages will be reviewed once per year. Developers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Existing affiliated packages will be re-reviewed once per year to ensure that the original review is still valid.
This re-review is nominally performed by the Affiliated Package Liaison or a delegate.  Developers
```

may challenge a new review which requires the editors to get an external
reviewer to perform the review.

Existing provisional affiliated will be reviewed once per year by the

> editors. They must still be working towards meeting the rest of the

Reviewer 3: editors should be defined. has not been so far.

Author: Have replaced all occurrences of "editor" with the affiliated package liaison.

=========================
SunPy Affiliated Packages
=========================

What is an affiliated package?
==============================

Affiliated packages are well-maintained, open source software packages
that are useful to solar physicists and integrate well with the SunPy
ecosystem. To aid discoverability, all affiliated packages are listed on

> the SunPy website, and they are advertised at national and international

Reviewer 4: What form does this advertising take? Who is responsible for the advertising? This seems a bit vague and also possibly an un-fullfillable promise (given we're a volunteer project), maybe more like "and the SunPy project tries to advertise them at national and international conferences and workshops".

Author: have reworded.

conferences and workshops.

A SunPy sponsored package is an affiliated package that is maintained

> and governed by the SunPy project.

Reviewer 4: Why do these exist? Is there a route to becoming a sponsored project?

Author: They exist to highlight the distinction between packages the SunPy project maintains, i.e. ndcube, vs ones that we don't like aiapy.

I am not sure about a route to becoming sponsored in any formal way, both sunpy and the original author would have to agree to it, so I think it's something that needs to be a longer conversation.

Reviewer 4: But why does SunPy maintain `ndcube`, but not `aiapy`, which I think is a source of confusion for someone reading this. I think a quick sentence should be added here along the lines of "These are general purpose packages..." (I couldn't think of a way to explain why sponsored packages exist)

Author: We did talk about this a bit yesterday, and really the governance and maintenance is the only differentiating factor. 

The things that could potentially be sponsored is large, it could be anything from `sunkit-image` which is too specific to be in core, but is still maintained by us, to `ndcube` which is too general to be in core!

The reason we don't maintain `aiapy` is because the AIA team want to maintain it.

Sponsored Packages
==================

> SunPy Core

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
sunpy Core
```
If this is the software?

----------
A core package for solar physics in Python.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15, 20, 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Links
     - Maintainer(s)
     - Review
   * - `Docs <https://docs.sunpy.org/>`__, `Code <https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy>`__
     - :ref:`The SunPy Community <subpackage_maintainers>`
     - |package_general| |integration_well| |docs_extensive| |tests_excellent| |duplication_none| |community_excellent| |dev_stable|

NDCube
------
A base package for multi-dimensional (non)contiguous coordinate-aware arrays.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15, 20, 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Links
     - Maintainer(s)
     - Review
   * - `Docs <https://docs.sunpy.org/projects/ndcube>`__, `Code <https://github.com/sunpy/ndcube>`__
     - `Daniel Ryan`_, `Stuart Mumford`_

>      -

Reviewer 4: I don't think these should go on the website without a review, so that the webpage doesn't look like it's a work in progress or missing things.

Author: I am planning on running reviews for them today (getting this page up blocks 2.0). They are mainly here at this point to demonstrate page layout (also, they are already sponsored packages review or no review lol).

drms
----
Access HMI, AIA and MDI data with Python.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15, 20, 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Links
     - Maintainer(s)
     - Review
   * - `Docs <https://docs.sunpy.org/projects/drms>`__, `Code <https://github.com/sunpy/drms>`__
     - `Kolja Glogowski`_
     -

radiospectra
------------
This package aims to provide support for some type of radiospectra on solar physics.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15, 20, 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Links
     - Maintainer(s)
     - Review
   * - `Docs <https://docs.sunpy.org/projects/radiospectra>`__, `Code <https://github.com/sunpy/radiospectra>`__
     - `David Pérez-Suárez`_
     -

Affiliated Packages
===================

Your package here!!

.. _Daniel Ryan: https://github.com/danryanirish
.. _David Pérez-Suárez: https://github.com/dpshelio
.. _Kolja Glogowski: https://github.com/kbg
.. _Stuart Mumford: https://github.com/Cadair

Affiliated Package Review
=========================

> Affiliated packages are reviewed before they are accepted for listing on this page.

Reviewer 4: Who are they reviewed by?

Review Criteria
---------------

Functionality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+----------------------------------------------------+
|  Status       | Meaning                                            |
+===============+====================================================+
|  |general|    | Implements functionality relevant                  |
|               | to a large amount of the solar                     |
|               | physics communtity.                                |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------------+
| |specialized| | Implements functionality which is                  |
|               | relevant to a specific subsection                  |
|               | of the solar physics community.                    |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------------+

> | |notrelevant| | This package should implement                      |

Reviewer 4: The meaning here needs a description of what 'notrelevant' means, just one sentence before the current text would be fine.

Author: I have reworded this.

|               | functionality relevant to the                      |
|               | solar physics community to be a                    |
|               | SunPy affiliated package.                          |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------------+

Integration
~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |well|        | Uses appropriate features in the                    |

> |               | core package and integrates well                    |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|               | sunpy core package and integrates well                    |
```

|               | appropriate dependencies, uses                      |
|               | appropriate data structures).                       |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |partially|   | Uses some features of the core                      |
|               | library, but could integrate                        |
|               | better with the affiliated                          |
|               | package ecosystem.                                  |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |minimal|     | Does not use many features of the                   |
|               | core library and does not                           |
|               | integrate well within the                           |
|               | affiliated package ecosystem.                       |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+

> | |extensive|   | Extensive online                                    |

Reviewer 4: Threre's a bit of mix of "Provides" and "are/is provided" in this block, it should be consistent (either one would do)

|               | incomplete docstrings. The                          |
|               | documentation is missing                            |
|               | guides, tutorials or other                          |
|               | high level documentation.                           |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |little|      | Little to no online                                 |
|               | documentation is provided in                        |
|               | the version control                                 |
|               | repository. No guides or                            |
|               | tutorials.                                          |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Testing
~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |excellent|   | A high quality testing suite                        |
|               | exists which tests individual                       |

> |               | functions (e.g. functions,                          |

Reviewer 4: What does "functions (e.g. functions, classes)" mean? I'm guessing the first 'functions' should be changed.

|               | duplicated from core other                          |
|               | affiliated packages, or other                       |
|               | relevant packages. Builds on top                    |
|               | of the affiliated package                           |
|               | ecosystem.                                          |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |some|        | Some code or functionality                          |
|               | duplication, functionality                          |
|               | already exists in the ecosystem.                    |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |major|       | Duplicates major existing                           |
|               | functionality.                                      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Engagement
~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+

> | |excellent|   | The developers are active and                       |

Reviewer 4: I disagree with having this 'engagement' criteria. It's vague, and I think very prone to being open to so many biases during package review, and could therefore be a big a barrier for outsiders to the project. I think we should encourage people to become active and engaged, but not have it as a criteria for review.

Author: I agree this section needs work, to my mind this section is really an "Open Development" criteria. I will add a commit which reworks it a little and you can see what you think.

I strongly believe we need to be reviewing packages on if they develop in the open and are receptive to community contributions and feedback. Being generally active in the sunpy community something else we should be encouraging (and rewarding) but I agree it shouldn't be a core part of this criteria.

Reviewer 4: I think 'being receptive to contributions and feedback' is 👍

|               | engaged with the SunPy community.                   |
|               | They actively solicit feedback                      |
|               | and work with other developers to                   |
|               | improve ecosystem integration.                      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

> | |good|        | The package is developed openly.                    |

Reviewer 4: See my comment above; I think all the criteria here should be moved to 'excellent', as it is a long list of things that take time and effort to do.

Author: I have tweaked the last bit of the wording in an upcoming commit to remove "implement" as I agree we don't want to have to make people do things to hit this. I however do not think that "have an issue tracker, accept PRs and have adopted a CoC" is a bar which is too high?

Reviewer 4: 👍 sounds good

|               | The developers have adopted a                       |

> |               | compatible Code of Conduct. They                    |

Reviewer 4: Compatible with what?

|               | welcome contributions, maintain                     |
|               | and respond to an issue tracker,                    |
|               | and implement appropriate                           |
|               | community feedback.                                 |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |needs_work|  | Code is maintained in hosted                        |
|               | version control, but decisions                      |

> |               | are made without community input.                   |

Reviewer 4: "decisions are made without community input." - What does this mean? It's not always possible to get community input, for example a lot of design decisions on HelioPy and pfsspy I have made myself because there is no community input available, and trying to solicit community input for every decision would be un-feasible.

Author: Again, I have made small tweaks. This is here basically to eliminate packages which are developed behind closed doors and then the code is thrown over a fence into a git repo.

| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |stable|      | Package is actively developed, contributions are    |
|               | responded to by the developers. API stability is    |
|               | prioritised and regular versioned releases          |
|               | are made, with any breaking changes well documented.|
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |rapid_dev|   | Package is has active but rapid                     |
|               | development, so large API changes might be frequent.|
|               | Contributions are responded to by the developers.   |
|               | Versioned releases exist and changes are documented.|
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
||low_activity| | Package is functional but with little activity from |
|               | the developers. The package has versioned releases  |
|               | and is still functional.                            |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

> | |needs_work|  | Package is no longer maintained and is not          |

Reviewer 4: What category does a project fall into if a package is no longer maintained, but is still functional?

Author: have adjusted the `low_activity` one to account for this.

|               | functional.                                         |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Outcomes
--------

+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Outcomes    | Meaning                                             |
+=============+=====================================================+

> | Accepted    | Affiliated packages can only be                     |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Accepted    | Affiliated packages are                     |
```

|             | accepted into the list if there                     |
|             | are no red scores and at least                      |
|             | one green in any category except                    |
|             | relevant and useful.                                |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

> | Provisional | A package may be listed as                          |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Provisional | A package is listed as                          |
```
If we're going to have criteria, we should stick by them and judge whether a package is accepted and provisional based on the criteria (instead of saying 'may be accepted' etc.)

|             | provisional, as long as it is                       |
|             | assesed to not have a red score                     |
|             | in “Relevant and useful                             |
|             | functionality”, “Duplication” or                    |
|             | “Community Engagement” and is                       |
|             | working towards meeting the rest                    |
|             | of the review criteria.                             |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

> | Not accepted| A package does not satisfy the                      |

Reviewer 4: I think we should say here that a reviewer would leave some helpful comments on how a package can improve and become provisional/accepted.

Author: :+1: We discussed this at length yesterday, and with the pre-review step and other things we decided that if a review gets to not accepted then something has gone wrong somewhere.

Author: Do you have concrete wording suggestions for this? I am not really sure what to put.

|             | provisional criteria.                               |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Open review process
-------------------

The review process for becoming a SunPy affiliated package is supposed
to be approachable, lightweight and open. Reviews are conducted in
GitHub issues on the https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy.org
repository.

Steps for Getting New Packages Reviewed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

0. If you’re not sure whether to submit your package for the affiliated
   package review process, you can open an issue to informally discuss
   your package or contact the Affiliated Package Liason to discuss your
   package privately.
1. Open a new issue with the issue template.

> 2. The Affiliated Package Liason will identify an independent reviewer.

Reviewer 4: Who is this mysterious Liason?

Author: It is one of the community roles https://sunpy.org/project/roles#affiliated-package-liaison it is currently unfilled.

Reviewer 4: Maybe link to that page here?

Author: done

:tocdepth: 3

=========================
SunPy Affiliated Packages
=========================

What is an affiliated package?
==============================

> Affiliated packages are well-maintained, open source software packages that are useful to solar physicists and integrate well with the SunPy ecosystem.

Reviewer 5: suggested reword `SunPy affiliated packages`

Author: That feels a little circular, also I think integration with more than just sunpy is important, i.e astropy integration is pretty important here as well.

> Affiliated packages are well-maintained, open source software packages that are useful to solar physicists and integrate well with the SunPy ecosystem.

Author: Open issue count is not a metric of activity :stuck_out_tongue: 

I am fine with either, it's really @ayshih you need to argue this distinction with :grin:

> Affiliated packages are well-maintained, open source software packages that are useful to solar physicists and integrate well with the SunPy ecosystem.

Reviewer 3: 👍

> Affiliated packages are well-maintained, open source software packages that are useful to solar physicists and integrate well with the SunPy ecosystem.

Reviewer 6: Given the emoticons/emojis, I can't tell if there's a serious suggestion here.  While "well" is open to interpretation, so is "actively".  My perspective is that one could imagine a stable package that is well maintained but not actively maintained (i.e., nothing needs to be done actively, but in the rare cases when something comes it up, it's taken care of well), but we may not be keen on a package that is actively maintained but not well maintained.

Our Development criteria use the adjective "well-maintained", so that's what we should use here.

To aid discoverability, all affiliated packages are listed on the SunPy website, and the SunPy project tries to advertise them at national and international conferences and workshops.

> A SunPy sponsored package is an affiliated package that is maintained and governed by the SunPy project.

Reviewer 5: Maybe give a detail or two of what this means to be maintained and governed by the SunPy project?

> A SunPy sponsored package is an affiliated package that is maintained and governed by the SunPy project.

Author: I would want to keep governance here as well, I think that's important.

> A SunPy sponsored package is an affiliated package that is maintained and governed by the SunPy project.

Reviewer 3: Using the word governance makes it feel like the board is involved but that is not correct (at this point). We don't have Enhancement proposals for affiliated packages which is why I wanted to make it more vague. Being responsible for encompasses governance I would argue.

> A SunPy sponsored package is an affiliated package that is maintained and governed by the SunPy project.

Author: I disagree, I think the board is involved. SEPs aren't the only way the board is involved in a thing (also don't see why SEPs only need to be scoped to core).

The board could also be involved in a sense that say "the board" funded some CI all the sponsored packages would be immediately eligible to use that. Also I feel that if the lead dev is responsible for them they fall under the purview of the board due to the way we have set that structure up.

Sponsored Packages
==================

> sunpy core

Author: I think we should follow astropy's lead here and list core under the sponsored packages. The relationship between the sunpy project and core and the sunpy project and for instance ndcube should be the same.

Don't see why core couldn't be re-reviewed annually, it would be real easy...

> sunpy core

Reviewer 3: I guess I could be okay with this but it does feel weird because sunpy core is different than the other packages. These are sunny-affiliated packages. How can sunpy-core be affiliated with itself but I guess I'm fine with this.

> sunpy core

Author: They aren't affiliated with core though, they are affiliated with *"the project"?

----------
A core package for solar physics in Python.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15, 20, 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Links
     - Maintainer(s)
     - Review
   * - `Docs <https://docs.sunpy.org/>`__, `Code <https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy>`__
     - :ref:`The SunPy Community <subpackage_maintainers>`
     - |package_general| |integration_well| |docs_extensive| |tests_excellent| |duplication_none| |community_excellent| |dev_stable|

NDCube
------
A base package for multi-dimensional (non)contiguous coordinate-aware arrays.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15, 20, 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Links
     - Maintainer(s)
     - Review
   * - `Docs <https://docs.sunpy.org/projects/ndcube>`__, `Code <https://github.com/sunpy/ndcube>`__
     - `Daniel Ryan`_, `Stuart Mumford`_
     - |package_general| |integration_well| |docs_extensive| |tests_excellent| |duplication_none| |community_excellent| |dev_stable|

> drms

Author: because these ones were already listed on the website. They were mainly here to test layout and page design. Review issues for these things are already open.

----
Provides search capability for the JSOC DRMS server which enables complex queries of HMI, AIA and MDI data.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15, 20, 60
   :header-rows: 1

>    * - Links

Author: Can we dump this to an issue for a future revision, I would like to do a lot with the layout of this page and those things need thinking about.

     - Maintainer(s)
     - Review
   * - `Docs <https://docs.sunpy.org/projects/drms>`__, `Code <https://github.com/sunpy/drms>`__
     - `Kolja Glogowski`_
     -

radiospectra
------------
This package aims to provide support for some type of radiospectra on solar physics.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15, 20, 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Links
     - Maintainer(s)
     - Review
   * - `Docs <https://docs.sunpy.org/projects/radiospectra>`__, `Code <https://github.com/sunpy/radiospectra>`__
     - `David Pérez-Suárez`_
     -

Affiliated Packages
===================

Your package here!!

Provisional Affiliated Packages
===============================

Your package here!!

.. _Daniel Ryan: https://github.com/danryanirish
.. _David Pérez-Suárez: https://github.com/dpshelio
.. _Kolja Glogowski: https://github.com/kbg
.. _Stuart Mumford: https://github.com/Cadair

> Affiliated Package Review

Author: That's fair but is way more work than it should be, so for the first version I would like to keep it all together.

=========================

> Each candidate package is reviewed by a reviewer independent of the package before it can be approved as an affiliated package.

Reviewer 2: As we were talking, do we need to clarify independent here?

Author: It might be worth leaving this a little fuzzy for now? We can always be more specific with a little experience in getting reviewers under our belt.

Review Criteria
---------------

.. _review_functionality:

Functionality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+----------------------------------------------------+
|  Status       | Meaning                                            |
+===============+====================================================+

> |  |general|    | Implements functionality relevant                  |

Author: If you want to reflow them all PRs / commits are welcome...

|               | physics community.                                 |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------------+
| |specialized| | Implements functionality which is                  |
|               | relevant to a specific subsection                  |
|               | of the solar physics community.                    |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------------+
| |notrelevant| | This package does not implement                    |
|               | functionality relevant to the                      |
|               | solar physics community.                           |
+---------------+----------------------------------------------------+

.. _review_integration:

> Integration

Reviewer 6: As discussed elsewhere, it's not clear how to rate a package that doesn't use any functionality of the SunPy ecosystem (not counting the package template):
* If it is used by other packages in the SunPy ecosystem, and we want to be able to rate it "Well Integrated" because of that, the criteria should be revised to allow for that.
* If it could be used by other packages in the SunPy ecosystem, but isn't actually yet, I don't know how to rate that.  We may need an additional rating for that situation.  "Integrate-able"?

Author: Also what do we want the rating to be if it implements functionality where using sunpy isn't appropriate (i.e. pyflct just wraps the C code) currently but it could in the future (to be more useful).

Reviewer 4: I'm seeing integration as a one way mapping - I wouldn't say numpy was integrated with sunpy, but I would say that sunpy was integrated with numpy, because sunpy makes use of numpy (and not the other way round). For a pacakge to be integrated with the sunpy ecosystem, I would similarly say that package x has make use of sunpy (and not the other way round).

Author: While I don't disagree with the interpretation of the words like that.

I do *strongly* think that "importing sunpy (or other affiliated package)" should not be a requirement to be an affiliated package, so if we are agreeing that this wording is mandating that it needs changing. To put a concrete example on this, `drms` should *definitely* be an affiliated package while not importing sunpy, and I personally think `pyflct` in it's current state should be as well.

Reviewer 4: Why should `drms` definitely be an affiliated package? Shouldn't we be recommending users use `Fido` which is a higher level interface to what `drms` provides?

Author: Yeah for most use cases probably, but that's not the purpose of the affiliated package list in my eyes. drms is useful for some things which aren't exposed through Fido, or if you just want to get real close to talking to a custom DRMS server.

It's a package which provides functionality which is useful to the solar community (it's useful to SunPy so it obviously is useful!) so I think it's worth listing on the website, also it takes people effort to write and maintain, so we should promote it.

If it re-implemented something which was in another affiliated package / core, that would obviously be bad, or if it didn't use something from SunPy/Astropy which would obviously be useful then that would also be bad (i.e. representing a HPC coord as a numpy array / astropy quantity). However, I don't see that a package providing useful lower-level functionality should be excluded from being an affiliated package because higher level tools do or could exist.

As Nabil loves to point out sometimes your solar images don't have any coordinate information so maybe you need to write a package which only uses numpy arrays. It can still be relevant to solar and useful and maybe (much like `pyflct`) higher level tools can be built around it.

Reviewer 4: > It's a package which provides functionality which is useful to the solar community (it's useful to SunPy so it obviously is useful!) so I think it's worth listing on the website, also it takes people effort to write and maintain, so we should promote it.

In that case we should drop the 'integration' section entirely if we think that packages that do not fully integrate with SunPy (e.g. `drms` and `pyflct`) should still be able to gain affiliated package status. Or we would have to be more lenient on having to get green status in all the criteria to get affiliated package status.

Personally I think this is a useful criteria, and packages like `drms` and `pyflct` should be encouraged to integrate more with sunpy core.

> However, I don't see that a package providing useful lower-level functionality should be excluded from being an affiliated package because higher level tools do or could exist.

Doesn't that violate the duplication criteria? If a package implemented low-level array functionality that is already available somewhere else as functionality on a `GenericMap` I would see that as duplication.

> As Nabil loves to point out sometimes your solar images don't have any coordinate information so maybe you need to write a package which only uses numpy arrays. It can still be relevant to solar and useful and maybe (much like pyflct) higher level tools can be built around it.

It could support both array and `GenericMap` input, but I think it's a reasonable integration criteria to require affiliated packages to accept `GenericMap` input where suitable.

Author: > Or we would have to be more lenient on having to get green status in all the criteria to get affiliated package status.

you don't have to get all green only no red (and one green).

---

> packages that do not fully integrate with SunPy (e.g. drms and pyflct) should still be able to gain affiliated package status

I think that if you are not using functionality where it is directly applicable you should get red, and not be accepted, I see a quite major difference between this and "haven't developed functionality" which uses sunpy (yet or it's out of scope).

Some examples to illistrate where I think the red line should be:

> package x represents HPC coordinates as a a tuple / Quantity / anything other than `frames.Helioprojective`

Red

> Package y gives the user an array representing some imaging data, while also returning a WCS object describing the coordinate system.

Red, there is no reason this wouldn't be a Map / ndcube.

> drms interfaces with a solar specific server software (DRMS) to retrieve FITS files, headers and data in low level forms (pandas dataframes).

Functionality could exist to do this at a higher level for most users, but it does, it's in SunPy core. Why does the fact that for whatever technical / historical choices the functionality at a higher level isn't in this package mean it gets a bad mark. It integrates with the rest of the ecosystem just as well as it needs to. It returns objects core uses (dataframes) and files etc.

I dislike the idea of saying to people "ah yeah this functionality is useful, but until you write higher level functionality you can't be an affiliated package".

To me drms is "green" because SunPy uses it.

> pyflct implements low level image processing (an algorithm designed by and for solar physicists) which dosen't yet have any high level wrappers.

I think "orange" here, because the functionality doesn't exist. If sunkit-image or pyflct implement higher level wrappers then it would be green.

---

> If a package implemented low-level array functionality that is already available somewhere else as functionality on a GenericMap I would see that as duplication.

Yes I would agree, but if it doesn't exist elsewhere why should we reject them outright in the "integration" section?

---

> It could support both array and GenericMap input, but I think it's a reasonable integration criteria to require affiliated packages to accept GenericMap input where suitable.

I think to get green I agree. Depending on the technical details of your package (taking pyflct as an example) it might make sense to put the high level functionality in `sunkit-image` (licence issues depending). So maybe the high level functionality is always out of scope for a package like that, and what it should do is focus on wrapping some C code?

---

In conclusion (this thread is getting *long*) I propose the following wording:

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Integration-Full_Integration-brightgreen.svg)

The package uses all appropriate features of the core package and affiliated package ecosystem to provide its functionality to users. It uses applicable data structures and has appropriate dependencies.

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Integration-Incomplete_Integration-orange.svg)

Some applicable functionality of the affiliated package ecosystem may be used but further integration work is possible. This could be because it hasn't yet been developed or because it is provided in other packages.

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Integration-No_Integration-red.svg)

Provides functionality which should use features such as data structures in core or other affiliated packages. i.e. provides an array and a WCS but doesn't use ndcube, or represents physical coordinates not using sunpy.coordinates.

Author: I am re-reading that again and I am still not sure I like it.

Reviewer 4: I think the proposed wording is 👍  - the "all appropriate features" is the key phrase which would give `drms` green here.

Under these guidelines I would give `pyflct` red status. It requires an array input, but this could easily be a GenericMap input, which I see as analogous to "provides an array/WCS but doesn't use ndcube". But I think that is fine and good, as `pyflct` could still be a provisional affiliated package (therefore on the list), and we would encourage `pyflct` to implement integration with `GenericMap` to attain orange/green status.

Reviewer 6: I'm just going to say :+1: and move on. =)

Author: I think as @ayshih pointed out in a DM, we can iterate on this as we go.

|               | affiliated package ecosystem.                       |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. _review_documentation:

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |extensive|   | Extensive online                                    |
|               | documentation, the public API                       |
|               | has formatted docstrings describing the             |
|               | code’s purpose, all inputs and                      |
|               | outputs, and includes                               |
|               | examples. Provides high level                       |
|               | documentation; for example, a                       |
|               | user guide and/or an example                        |
|               | gallery.                                            |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

> | |some|        | Some online documentation. The                      |

Author: I would say some documentation is pretty "good". This bar is "the public API is documented" but maybe not that well. I think that's a perfectly reasonable "good" personally.

What would you suggest as a 4th tier here?

> | |some|        | Some online documentation. The                      |

Reviewer 7: I agree the jump between `some` and `excellent` seems very wide, would suggest `good` for the middle.

Also a more minor issue `little` and `extensive` describe a quantities no quality, you could have extensive documentation, that is terrible?

|               | but coverage is minimal. Testing                    |
|               | is automated.                                       |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |needs_work|  | Lacks tests and/or tests are not                    |
|               | executed in a test framework                        |
|               | (e.g. pytest).                                      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. _review_duplication:

Duplication
~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |none|        | No code or functionality is                         |
|               | duplicated from core, other                         |
|               | affiliated packages, or other                       |
|               | relevant packages. Builds on top                    |
|               | of or significantly advances the affiliated package |

> |               | ecosystem.                                          |

Reviewer 6: I'd remove the sentence "Builds on top of...".  It merges in considerations in other criteria beyond "duplication".

> |               | already exists in the ecosystem.                    |

Reviewer 4: This is vague, and e.g. for radiospectra I have no idea if other functionality exists in the 'ecosystem' or how to find out if it does.

Author: perhaps we should just reword this to be just affiliated packages?

Author: I have pushed a commit which does that.

Author: I don't really think that's the issue right, the issue is how you ever get a reviewer to answer that question reliably. It's a potentially tractable problem to look over the existing affiliated packages and see any clear duplication, knowing everything that exists in the whole scipy ecosystem is more of an issue.

I have adapted to 
```
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |some|        | Some code or functionality duplication, some minor  |
|               | functionality may be duplicated from other          |
|               | affiliated packages, or other relevant packages.    |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
```
@ehsteve @dstansby is that ok?

Reviewer 3: 👍

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |major|       | Duplicates major existing                           |
|               | functionality.                                      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. _review_community:

Community
~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |excellent|   | The developers actively solicit input on decisions  |
|               | and feedback and work with other developers to      |
|               | improve ecosystem integration. The developers are   |
|               | active and engaged with the community.              |
|               | The package must also meet the requirements for a   |

> |               | 'Good' rating.                                      |

Author: they need meet the lower criteria to meet the top one. See previous comment from @ayshih

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |good|        | The package is developed openly.                    |
|               | The developers have adopted a                       |

> |               | Code of Conduct compatible with SunPy's. They       |

Reviewer 4: What defines a CoC being compatible with SunPy's? At the moment this criteria is impossible to review against.

Author: I get the ambiguity here, but I am not sure it's easy to be specific here. This wording is also used by NumFOCUS for all their subprojects (our CoC has to be "compatible" with theirs). I think it's really just "not obviously contradictory".

|               | not clear how to make a                             |
|               | contribution or whether                             |
|               | contributions are welcome.                          |
|               | Developers do not respond to                        |
|               | issues or an issue tracker is not                   |
|               | used.                                               |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. _review_development:

Development Status
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Status        | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| |stable|      | Package is actively developed, contributions are    |
|               | responded to by the developers. API stability is    |
|               | prioritised and regular versioned releases          |
|               | are made, with any breaking changes well documented.|
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

> | |rapid_dev|   | Package is has active but rapid                     |

Reviewer 5: Package _is_ active but _has_ rapid development so large API changes _may_ be frequent

|               | development, so large API changes might be frequent.|

> |               | Contributions are responded to by the developers.   |

Reviewer 5: _Contributions are responded to by the developers._ - does this mean that the contribution are reviewed?

Author: If it's a PR then sure, this is worded to be more general, i.e. also encompassing responding to issues.

|               | Versioned releases exist and changes are documented.|
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
||low_activity| | Package is functional but with little or no activity|
|               | from the developers. The package has versioned      |

> |               | releases and is still functional.                   |

Reviewer 5: is ~still~ functional

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| |needs_work|  | Package is no longer maintained and is not          |
|               | functional.                                         |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. _review_outcomes:

Outcomes
--------

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Outcomes      | Meaning                                             |
+===============+=====================================================+
| Accepted      | To be accepted, affiliated packages must have a     |
|               | green score in both the relevant and useful         |

> |               | categories, and at least one other. They must also  |

Reviewer 5: ~also~

> |               | categories, and at least one other. They must       |

Reviewer 6: There are no "relevant and useful categories", just the "functionality" criterion?  I don't know whether "both" here is intended to refer to the "functionality" criterion *and* some other criterion that got edited out.

> | Provisional   | After review a package is listed as                 |

Reviewer 3: Must NOT have a red score in the “Functionality",  “Duplication” or “Community” criteria and is                         working towards improving the other criteria.

Author: I think that wording is much harsher than what is currently here for limited extra clarity.

|               | provisional, as long as it is                       |
|               | assessed to not have a red score                    |
|               | in the “Functionality",                             |
|               | “Duplication” or                                    |
|               | “Community” criteria and is                         |
|               | working towards meeting the rest                    |
|               | of the review criteria.                             |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Not accepted  | A package does not currently satisfy the            |

> |               | provisional criteria.                               |

Reviewer 3: This is not a criteria but a rating.
```suggestion
|               | provisional rating.                               |
```

| Not accepted  | A package does not satisfy the                      |
|               | provisional criteria.                               |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

Open review process
-------------------

> The review process for becoming a SunPy affiliated package is supposed to be approachable, lightweight and open.

Reviewer 5: is ~supposed~ _aimed_ to be approachable?

Author: I went with "designed"?

> Reviews are conducted in GitHub issues on the https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy.org repository.

Reviewer 5: ~in~ _through_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

0. If you’re not sure whether to submit your package for the affiliated package review process, you can open an issue to informally discuss your package or contact the :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison` to discuss your package privately.

> 1. Open a new issue with the issue template.

Reviewer 4: Would be good to add a link to the issue page here.

Author: I can do that post-merge and link to the correct template :+1:

> 2. The :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison` will identify a reviewer independent of your package.

Reviewer 3: Do we want to go further and state that we will look for reviewers outside of the SunPy Community? Do we want to enable the submitter to suggest a reviewer?

Author: > Do we want to go further and state that we will look for reviewers outside of the SunPy Community?

Not unless you are volunteering to find them. Also I don't think that's really needed, or even helpful. We need our reviewers to have a good understanding of the sunpy ecosystem to be able to judge against things like ecosystem integration.

> Do we want to enable the submitter to suggest a reviewer?

:shrug:

Reviewer 3: I thought you wanted to try for external reviewers? It would be good to have them but we need to make sure that we are not seen as a club where you need to know someone in the club to get in.

Author: I think "independent of your package" allows for not in sunpy org, but doesn't require it? External could be read as not someone who authors another affiliated package completely unrelated, so I would rather keep this a little loose and see how it goes?

3. The reviewer evaluates the affiliated package against the review criteria.
4. The reviewer adds their review as a comment to the issue.
5. Based on the scores in each of the seven categories, the affiliated package is either accepted, given provisional status, or provided feedback on how to meet the criteria.

> 6. Based on the scores, the submitting author can decide if they want their package displayed on the website.

Reviewer 3: I'm assuming that this is for those that are not accepted? How would this be done in practice? Cancel the Pull Request? Not sure why a proposer would ever want their package to be listed as not accepted. In fact, this goes against the very idea of the list because you've just provided advertisement to a package that is not accepted! I suggest there is no option here. Accepted and provisional get listed and those that are not accepted have their PRs closed.

Author: I would agree that we don't want to list not accepted packages. I guess someone might decide they don't want their package listed if it got passing but not-excellent results so we leave the option open for accepted packages?

I wonder if @mbobra / @wtbarnes have thoughts on this based on the pyastro hack?

Reviewer: @ehsteve Yup we all agreed (during the pyastro hack) not to list rejected packages. By this point in the review (Step 6), the submitting author already went through two steps (the pre-review step and the editor submission checklist) designed to prevent public rejection. 

If a package somehow still goes through the process and gets rejected, it is likely because the submitting author pushed forward without considering our feedback in these two steps. 

If a package goes through the process and gets accepted, or provisionally accepted, but received low marks in some category, it is possible that the submitting author still doesn't want the package listed on the website. Step 6 was designed to give the author that option. 

I agree that we should add something here explicitly about closing the PR. Maybe:

5. Based on the scores in each of the seven categories, the affiliated package is either accepted, given provisional status, or not accepted. In all three cases, this practically means closing the pull request and ending the review process. In the last case, the reviewer provides the submitting author with feedback on how to meet the acceptance criteria with the intention of helping the submitting author achieve provisional or accepted status in the future.
6. The submitting author of packages with accepted or provisional status can decide if they want their package displayed on the SunPy website.

Reviewer 3: This is better but I definitely do want there to be invisible affiliated packages. I would change this text to say that even if accepted they can turn down their provisional or accepted status (and therefore NOT be listed).

Author: I have reworded this to address the comments (I copied @mbobra 's #5 but adjusted other things rather than adding the suggested #6)

7. The submitting author has the right to ask for another review. In this case, the :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison` will identify a new independent reviewer. This new review will be added to the same issue.
8. If the review passed the review criteria then the submitting author or the :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison` opens a pull request to add their package to the sunpy.org website.
9. The :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison` merges the pull request.
    

> Steps for Getting Existing Packages Reviewed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Existing Packages Review Process
```

Steps for Getting Existing Packages Reviewed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Existing affiliated packages will be reviewed once per year by the :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison`. Developers may challenge a new review which requires the editors to get an external reviewer to perform the review.

Reviewer 5: is an external reviewer just another independent reviewer?

Author: yes.

> Existing affiliated packages will be reviewed once per year by the :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison` to ensure the review is current.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Existing affiliated packages will be reviewed once per year by the :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison` (or deputy) to ensure the review is current.
```

Author: :-1: things can be delegated. Hell as we don't have a Affiliated Package Liason at the moment I am doing all this.

> 7. If the review passed the review criteria then the submitting author or the :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison` opens a pull request to add the package and it's review results to the sunpy.org website, unless the submitting author withdraws the submission.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
7. If the review passed the review criteria then the submitting author or the :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison` opens a pull request to add the package and its review results to the sunpy.org website, unless the submitting author withdraws the submission.
```

Existing provisional affiliated packages will be reviewed once per year by the :ref:`role_affiliated-liaison`.

> They must still be working towards meeting the rest of the review criteria.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To pass they must not have a worse score and still be working towards meeting the rest of the review criteria.
```

Author: hmmm, this seems a fair chunk stricter and also open to potential issues around variance of different reviewers. I am not sure we need to do that?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I agree but also disgree. If there are working towards meeting the rest of the review criteria than I assume that things cannot be getting worse. I wanted something a little less vague than they are "working on it". That seems way open to interpretation. More so than our review process which is defined.
